-- Lesson 2 --

Doing business in Global Marktets

Tim Cook was good at Globalization
He eventually was offered a job at Apple by Steve Jobs and went on 
to succeed him as CEO

Importing - buying products from another country.

Exporting - selling products to another country.

Free trade - is the movement of goods and services among nations without
political or economic barriers. It has become a hotly debated concept.

Comparative and Absolute Advantage

Compartive Advantage theory - states that a country should sell to other 
countries those products it produces most effectively and efficently.

Absolute Advantage - A country has an absolute advantage if it can produce a
specific product more efficiently than all other countries.

Balance of trade - the total value of a nation's exports compared to its 
imports measured over a particular period.

Trade Surplus - occurs when the value of a country's exports exceeds that of
its imports

Trade deficit - Occurs when the value of a country's exports is less than
imports

Balance of payments - the difference between money coming into a country
and money leaving the country, plus money flows coming into or leaving
a country from other factors such as tourism, foreign aid, militry 
expenditures and foreign investment.

The US has been in a trade deficit since 1975, our highest deficit is with
China.

Dumping - is selling products in a foreign country at lower prices than 
those charged in producing country.

Licensing - the right to manufacture its product or use its trademark to a 
foreign company (the licensee) for a fee (royalty). 

Exporting - to meet increasing global competition US department of Commerce
created Export Assistance Centers (EACs). Providing hands-on exporting
assitance and trade-finace support for small and medium-sized businesses

Contract manufacturing - a foreign company produces private-label goods to 
which a domestic company then attaches its own brand name or trademark.
For example, contract manufacturers make circuit boards and components used
in computers, printers, smartphones, medical products, airplanes, and 
consumer electronics for companies such as Dell, Apple, and IBM

Joint Venture - a partnership in which tow or more companies (often from 
different countries) join to undertake a major project. Joint ventures are
often mandated by governments such as China as a condition of doing business
in their country.

Advantages:
Shared technology and risk.
Shared marketing and management experitse.
Entry into markets where foreign companies are often not allowed unless 
goods are produces locally.

Disadvantages:
Stealing company tech, Shared tech becoming obsolete, or the joint venture 
may become too large to be as flexible as needed.

Strategic alliance - a long-term partnership between two or more companies
established to help each company build competitive market advantages.

Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) - is the buying of permanent property and
businesses in foreign nations.

Foreign subsidiary - a company owned in a foriegn country by another company
called the parent company.

Multinational corporation - one that manufactures and markets products in 
many different countries and has multinational stock ownership and 
management.

Some large multinational companies include: Berkshire Hathaway and Walmart

Sovereign wealth funds - investment funds controlled by governments holding
investment stakes in foreign countries.

Exchange rate - the value of one nations currency relative to the currencies
of other countries. (forex)

Devaluation - lowers the value of a nations currency relative to others.

Countertrading - complex form of bartering in which several countries each
trade goods or services for other goods or services.

Trade proctectionism is the use of government regulations to limit the 
import of goods and services.

tariffs - taxes on the imports, making imported goods more expensive to buy

import quota - limits the number of products in certain categories a nation
can import.

World Trade Organization (WTO) to mediate trade disputes among nations.

North American Free Trade Agreement - created a free trade area amoung the 
United States, Canada, and Mexico

United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement - new agreement ratified in 2020.
At the time of this writing, three countries needed to meet a list of 
requirements before the agreement could go into effect.

-- 4 Demanding Ethical and Socially Responsible Behavior --

Enron, created off-the-books partnerships to unlawfully hides its debts and
losses.

This was followed by more disgrace such as worldcom, Tyco, and Lehman 
Brothers. The real estate collaspe of 2008

Ethics - society's accepted standards of moral behavior; that is, behaviors
accepted by society as right rather than wrong.

Compiance-based ethic codes - emphasize preventing unlawful behavior by 
increasing control and penalizing wrongdoers.

Integrity-based ethics codes - define the organizations's guiding values, 
create an enviroment that supports ethically sound behavior, and stress 
shared accountability.

Whistleblowers - insiders who report illegal of unethcial behavior

Corporate social responsibility (CSR) - is the concern businesses have for 
the welfare of society, not just for their owners.

Corporate Philanthropy - includes th chariatble donations to nonprofit
groups of all kinds. 

Corporate social initiatives - include enhanced forms of corpate 
philanthropy. Directly related to a companies competencies.

Corporate responsibility - includes essentially everything that has to do 
with acting responsible within society.

Corporate policy - refers to the position a firm takes on social and
political issues.

Social Auditing - a systematic evaluatin of an organization's progress 
toward implementing socially responsible and responsive programs.
