-- Homework pages 96-97  --

Complete Algorithm Workbench 1,2,3

Draw.io file can include both, and should be pdf

Debugging Ex. 1 

Draw a flowchart and write pseudocode (in python) to represent the logic of
a program that allows the user to enter a value. The program multiples a 
value by 10 and outputs the result.

Draw a flowchart and write the pseudocode (in python) to represent the logic
of a program that allows the user to enter a value for one edge of a cube.
The program calculates the surface area of one side of the cube, the surface
area of the whole cube, and its volume. The program outputs all the results

-- In class notes 2.1 --

The first step in programming is designing - flowcharts and pseudocode help
with this process.

Next, the code is written.

All code must be cleared of all syntax errors.

After the executable is created, it can be checked for logic errors

If logic errors exist, the program must be debugged.

The purpose of Programming Logic and Design is to focus on flowcharts and 
pseudocode

The design is the foundation of a good program

Output - data that is generated and displayed 

Input - data that a program receives 

Variables - Storage locations in memory for data 

Computer programs typically follow 3 steps
1. Input is received
2. Some process is performed on the input
3. Output is produced

Programmers can define variable names following certain rules
    - Must be one word, no spaces 
    - Generally, punctuation characters are avoided 
    - Generally, the first character cannot be a number
    - Name a variable something that indicates what may be stored in it
camelCase is a popular naming convention

Variable assignment does not always have to come from user input, it can 
also be set through an assignment statement

A variable declaration includes a variable's name and a variable data type
Data Type - defines the type of data you intend to store in a variable
    - Integer - stores only whole numbers 
    - Real - stores whole or decimal numbers 
    - String - any series of characters
Declare Real grossPay

A named constant is a name that represents a value that cannot be changed
    - Makes programs more self explanatory 
    - If a change to the value occurs, it only has to be modified in one
    place

Constant Real INTEST_RATE = 0.069

Hand Tracing is a simple debuggin g process for location hard to find errors
in a program 

External documatation describes aspects of the program for the user, 
sometimes written by a technical writer

Internal documation explains how parts of the program works for the 
programmer, also known as comments

When you are using input() you have to declear a type
int(input()) example
