--Business and Wealth Building--

A Business is any activity that seeks to provide goods and services to others
while operating at a profit.

Goods - are tangible products, things you could hold in your hand.
Computers, food, clothing, clothing, cars, and appliances.

Services - are intangible products, can't be held in your hand. education, 
health care, insurance, recreation, and travel and tourism.

When you have developed the right goods and services, based on cosumer wants and
needs, you need to reacht those comsumers using whatever media they prefer
social media, online advertising, TV, and more

--Revenues, Profits, and Losses--

Revenue is the total amount of money a business takes in during a given period
of time. Profit is the amount of money a business earns above and beyond what it
spends for salaries and other expenses needed to run.

A loss occurs when the business's expenses are more than its revenues. 
A business operating at a loss will likely have to close. The business 
enviroment is constanly changing. What seems like a great opportunity one day 
may become a huge failure when the economy changes. Starting a business may thus 
come with huge risks. But huge risk often result in huge rewards.

--Matching Risk with Profit--

Risk is the change an entrepreneur takes of losing time and money on a business
that may not prove profitable. 

Not all enterprises make the same amount of profit. Usually those that take the
most rick may take the most profit.

-- Standard of living and Quality of Life --

The Term Standard of living - refers to the amount of goods and services people 
can buy with the money they have. Often, goods cost more in one country than in 
others, because of higher taxes and stricter government regulations.

Quality of life - refers to the general well-being of a society in terms of its 
political freedom, antural enviroment, education, health care, safety, amount of
leisure, and rewards that add to satisfaction.

-- Responding to the Various Business Stakeholders --

Stakeholders are all the people who stand to gain or lose by the policies and 
activities of a business and whose concerns the business needs to address. They 
include customers, employees, stockholders, suppliers, dealers (retailers), 
bankers, people in the surrounding community, the media, enviromentalists, 
competitors, unions, critics and elected government leaders.

Business in the 21st century have to recognize and resond to the needs of their 
stakeholders. The need for the business to make a profit may be balanced against
the needs of the employees to earn a sufficent income. 

Outsourcing - means contracting others companies (often in other countries) to 
do some of all of the functions of a firm, like production or accounting tasks.
Outsourcing has had serious problems in some states where jobs have been lost
to overseas competitors

-- Nonprofits --

Public schools, civic associations, charities. Make a contribution to the welfare
of society. These organizations often strive for financial gains, but they use 
them to meet their social or educational goals rather than for personal profit.

At this point I relalize I have been taking to many notes

Will just right down defintions and things I assume to be important

 -- Five Factors of Production --

1. Land - Land and other natural resources are used to make homes, cars, and other
    products
2. Labor - People have always been an important resource in producing goods 
    and services. Today many people are being replaced by technology
3. Capital - Machines, tools, building, whatever else is used in the production
     of goods. It might not unclude money; money is used buy factors, but is not
     always considered a factor by itself.
4. Entrepreneurship - all the resources in the world have little value unless 
    entrepreneurs are willing to take the risk of starting a business to use them
5. Knowledge - Information Technology has revolutionized business, making it 
    possible to quickly determine the wants and needs and to respond with the 
    desired goods and services.

-- The business enviroment --

Technology - means everything from phones to computers, mobile devices, robots,
and software programs and apps that make business processing more effective,
efficent and productive.

Productivity is the amount of output you can generate given the amount of input,
such as the number of hours you work.

E-commerce - is the buying and selling of goods online. There are two types of 
e-commerce transaction: b2c and b2b 

Agricultural workers displaced by improved farm technology went to work in factories
Improved manufacturing productivity and increased competition from foreign firms
contributed to the development of the service ecomony in the US. The service era 
is now giving way to an information based global revolution. The economy must 
be flexible to be successful 

-- How Economic Conditions Affect Businesses --

Economics - the study of how society chooses to employ resources to produce goods and services
and distribute them for consumption among various competing groups and individuals.

The two major branches of economics 

Macro & Mirco

Macroeconomics - Looks at the operation of a nation's economy as a whole

Mircoeconomics - Looks at the behavior of people and orgainizations in markets
for particular products or services.


-- Adam Smith and the creation of wealth --

Scottish economist Adam Smith envisoned creating more resources so that everyone
could become wealthier, rather than believing fixed resources had to be divided 
among competiting groups.

Invisible hand - describes the process that turns self-directed gain into social
 and economic benefit for all.

State Capitalism - a combination of freer marktets and some government control. 
China has had rapid growth as a result of state capitalism

The 4 basic right of free market capitalism:

1. The right to own private property
2. The right to own a business
3. The right to freedom of competition
4. The right to freedom of Choice
