-- A Modest Proposal --

Humor and emotion are important in writing
You can say things that serious people can't say if you're 
funny

Satire - bringing light to a serious issue through humor

For preventing the children of poor people in Ireland,
from being a burden on their parents or country,
and for making them beneficial to the public

The author thinks beggers make the country look bad, Dr. Jonathan
Swift

He estimates there are 120 thousand poor children born a year at the time 
of writing
It's impossible to give all of these children jobs, or build them 
houses
Swift suggest that people eat these children because they are delicious
He includes different ways to prepare the children for consumption

He says they will skin the children and make gloves and boots
"butchers we may be assured will not be wanting"

It's supposed to be satire mocking the cure all solutions people have 
purposed to help with Irelands economic troubles

This solution is aimed to help with unemployment and overpopulation

serves as an introduction to the concept and use of agrumentative language
Swifts rhetoric persuades the reader to detest the speaker and pity the
irish. He uses language ordinarly used on animals to describe the irish
He uses a serious tone to highlight the absurdity of his proposal

-- The Lottery Notes --

Opens in a village with 300 people on June 27th, population 300 
The lottery takes place over 2 hours

Mr Summers runs the lottery, he has a lot of time to do things for the 
village. He arrives with a black box then mr graves arrives.

The black box isn't the original because that one was lost years ago

The people in the town don't like to change traditions but mr summers
convinced them to change from wood chips to paper slips
Tessie Hutchinson arrives late and people make jokes about it.

Lottery rules:
    mr summers reads names
    the family comes up to draw there paper if their name is called
    no one looks at their paper till everyone has drawn

Old man warner says if young people give up the lottery they will end 
up living in caves

Tessie draws the black dot and they stone her

Themes of the lotttery 
Scapegoat
Mob psychology people can abondon reason in a group
Blindly following traditions

1. I was suprised by the ending, you think this is a somewhat normal town
because they have traditions and people find places in society
Tessie is foreshadowed to be the outcast in the town arriving late. 

2. Tessie is singled out and stoned to death, by the end she has become more
and more of an outcast. You can anticipate something bad is going to happen
to her

3. Most of the characters are treated equally, except Tessie, they often
laugh at her expense

4. Winning the lottery in this story means you are stoned to death by 
the town

5. Mr graves the postmaster represents death, you turn in your papers to 
him and later it may cost you your life
Old man warner, warns people about giving up the lottery. Even though
he is the most lucky in the town
Dellacroix, warm and friendly in nature selects a stone so large she had
to pick it up with both hands
Harry Jones, the hairy ape in all of us
Huthchinson allusion to Anne Hutchinson religous dissenter


7. the black box of death, battered like the person they stone every year

8. The writer makes us feel like the lottery is uncivilized
Small childre are worried they'll be stoned to death

9. scapegoating, mob mentality

10. The author was probably making a reference to people in germany 
who were the scapegoats of their misfortunes from ww1, and the mob mentality
of their citizen while they stood by during the holocaust
