-- Notes Start here --

All reading assignments can be downloaded as pdfs

This course will have:

Pre-semester Writing sample(2-3 pages)
Three Essays(4-5 pages) (extended)
One Short Essay(2-3 pages)
Portfolio Reflection(3-4 pages)
Dicussion Thread Responses 
Attendance is 100 points

Times New Roman or Geogia

Email Expectations Kind of formal, business formal
sod1@uakron.edu

You can miss 3 classes with no grade penalty

-- Heartbreaking work of a straggering genius summary --


Four children named Dave, Bill, Beth, and Toph (youngest) 

Their dad dies followed by their mother, Leaving Dave to take care of his 
siblings

Dave nicknamed Eggers feels robbed of his youth, which in turn fuels his 
pursuit of sex and irresponsiblility

He eventually auditions for MTV, the Real World in a theme of 
exhibitionism

Authored by Dave Eggers

-- Reading notes ^^ continued --

In the beginning his mother cannot walk. Eggers father is also sick maybe 
already dead, he has to care for his mother who cannot move off the couch.

They flash back to a month ago in Beths perspective, she sees her father in
the driveway kneeling

The house is described: living room kind of classy, but the family room
was a reflection of their true inclinations. Jumbled funiture competing 
with clenched teeth and sharp elbows. Looks like a ships cabin. The walls
are brown except one with a fireplace.

They are watching a show where bodybuilders fight while Eggers holds his 
mothers nose.

His mom is a teacher that most of the kids like.

Eggers hopes his moms nose will stop bleeding because he blood doesn't 
clot correctly, last time she had to go to the hosiptal

She spits up green stuff because she has had her stomach removed, she used
to spit into towels then they got something from the hosiptal for her to 
spit into, Eggers recalls a time when his mother was still walking around 
and would go out. She hasn't moved off the couch for quiet some time

Eggers fantasizes about hurting people who he thinks are nosy about his 
parents condition

At the end he removes the towel and is greatful the bleeding stopped

Eggers isn't sure if his mother stomach has grown in the area where they 
removed her stomach because the cancer is back or shes just straving

Fanastys and not knowing the correct medical terms make the author more 
relatible

Flashback offer context to the story where it would otherwise be confusing

Descriptive, you can somewhat image how the people in his family are 
by the wave he describes the house. But at time his mothers condition is
disgusting. His family is idendpented besides the illnesses that their
parents have

The details make the story more compelling 

Clarity, needs to be direct

Tone, is a function of detail and clarity. What you choose to detail
sets clarity and tone, you don't need to be detailed about everything

Think about the humor in Modest Propsal and The Lottery
