-- Lesson 3 --

-- Letter from palo alto --

About Mark Zuckerburg

He grew up as the only boy in his family, treated like a king
Nickname was prince

Had a programming tutor, was a prodigy from a young age
Made synapse, Microsoft wanted to buy it instead he put it online for 
free
ZuckNet 

Told his friend people were dumb for submitting their personal information
to facebook early on
Says hes matured

Talks about Wilklevoss twins, Divyia Narendra, and Eduardo Saverin

Says people will get used to sharing everything on the internet and
privacy will become less and less of a thing, people will adapt

Like:
1. He's a college student who's very successful, relatible
2. He works closly with top executives
3. He works very hard, last person to leave the office

Hate:
1. Leaked information, fucking the twins in the ear
2. Takes all the credit for his project
3. He has no personality, hard to relate to
4. Doesn't respect privacy

-- Can I kill you --

Some bleeding heart liberal thinks he can solve the heath care system in 
America by pointing out it's obvious flaws, says health care is for the rich

Written in 2009, as obamacare came out, I would consider this a piece of 
propaganda. 

Talks about how insurance companies operate, they make it hard for sick 
people to get a policy, he going to sell the televison rights to his death 
panel.

The eskimos leave the old to die, so he'll have an eskimo on the panel.

-- Death Penalty --

Starts talking about Ted Bundy

How she doesn't support the death penalty, but if her daughter was one of 
the victums of ted, then she would want to kill him herself


The death penalty is wrong, not only because if consists of stooping to the
level of the killers, but also because it is not what it seems, Just before
Ted Bundys most recent execution date the father of the last victum,
who was a 12 year old girl, said, "bring him to salt lake city, let us all"
have him

-- How the good writing essay will be graded --

Meet the requirements of the assignment
Provide details that give the audience an understanding of your experience
and its effect
Has a thesis that is explored in the boddy of the essay
Grammer and usage 
Clarity

Needs to be 3-4 pages, 12 font double spaced times new roman

Where did you read this and who recommend it
Why did you like this piece of writing
How does this piece of writing meet the class defintion of good writing 
How did reading this piece change your thinking about writing and or the 
topics contained in the piece

Thesis 
This writing meets the defintion because it uses detail clarity Emotion 
and is about something
